---
layout: post
title: The Outernet is coming
summary: The internet has been growing up, and it about to leave home.
lastupdated: Sep 11 2012 7:45 AM
---

> My name is Kevin Trethewey, and I am writing this from the context of being a professional software developer with ± 15 years experience, with the last 5 spent coaching development teams and companies.

# We’ve come a long way

Since I started developing software around 1997 the landscape has been changing at an ever increasing rate. This was driven at first by processor speed and storage capacity, then rise of the internet and the fall of the costs of computing.

Back then, to do anything interesting, you had to work for a large company with deep pockets and be a cog in a human machine built out of siloed specialists each with very deep knowledge in a very narrow focus.

As abstractions were built and new and better ways were found to develop software this started to change, smaller cross functional teams with specialising generalists became the preferred way of doing things.

Today, with cloud computing and accompanying commoditisation of infrastructure, coupled with concepts like App Stores a single developer can now deliver an amazing application to millions of people on a shoestring budget. 

Individuals have a different set of values to large organisations and so micro-development has also fuelled an explosion in the open source arena. This has strapped a turbo booster to the software industry, the hot output of projects feeding back into new projects and propelling the software development world at an ever greater pace.

Today, the game has fundamentally changed. Those left behind are going to have a hard time catching up. One of the biggest challenges for big business in the next 5 years is operating in an environment where they need talented developers to be cogs in their machine, but talented developers no longer need them.

So where to from here? The software car is powering up the street, but what is over the horizon?

# Back to the future

My interest in computers started when I was 19. I bought my first computer, an Intel DX4-100, in 1996. I got it home, switched it on and after some beeping it stopped at a black screen...

{% highlight ruby %}  
C:\> _
{% endhighlight %} 

I had to go back to the store to borrow some manuals to find out how what to do next. A few weeks later that computer must have thought it was a piece of lego, the number of times I had pulled it apart and put it back together again. I was hooked.

At that point I found myself at a crossroads. Should I choose to work with hardware, or software? Weighing up the decision I picked software development, and haven't looked back since. Until recently.

The same pressures I described shaping software development are going to drastically reshape the hardware landscape and the world we live in will not be same again.

# Barrier to entry

As described, lowering the barrier to entry for releasing software products fundamentally changed the software landscape. The barrier to entry for releasing hardware products is rapidly eroding as well.

Five years ago if you wanted to release a new hardware widget, you needed a large team of engineers, designers, marketers and all sorts of other specialists. You needed a massive budget and you needed to produce and sell your product in the thousands (or millions even) to make a profit.

Today you can use cheap prebuilt plug and play components to rapidly prototype your new widget and design and print the casing on your own 3D printer in your own garage all for well under $1000.

You can then mail off the designs to a Chinese manufacturing concern and have a container of your widget heading back to you in no time at all. Or, manufacture the widgets in your garage and sell them in your neighbourhood.

# The hardware game changers

* Open source/Open hardware
* Cheap pluggable commodity components
* Home 3D printing
* Cheap low volume Chinese manufacturing
* Crowdfunding 

# Leaving home

So where does that put us? 

Back to me for a bit.

The fundamental thing that attracted me to software development over hardware was that the limit to what you could do was my own brain. Hardware is fixed, but the limits of what I can build in software is only limited by my own imagination and programming abilities.

The problem is that any program I write, and this is true for all software, stays in the computer. Its over there on the desk. I have to get up and go to it and interact with it on a two dimensional screen.

You see where I am going with this? Suddenly I, and literally millions of people like me are coming to realise that our software doesn’t need to stay on the desk any more. It can get up, come out and go for a walk with us.

Not as an app on a cellphone, but built into our houses, streets, cars, clothes, lives. Cheap, specialised, embedded, mobile internet enabled devices built into your world. 

The Outernet.

# Its already here

This isn’t some sort of science fiction prediction, its already here...

* [Want to search google without putting down your book?](http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/607691307/ubi-the-ubiquitous-computer-voice-activated-and-al-0).
* [Smart Beacons](http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/rowdyrobot/tod-connect-real-world-actions-to-mobile-devices-a)
* [Imagine a world in which anyone can launch a satellite](http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/880837561/skycube-the-first-satellite-launched-by-you)
* [Wondering about the quality of air around you?](http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/edborden/air-quality-egg)
* [Want to build your own 3D printer?](http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/printrbot/printrbot-your-first-3d-printer)

# Some Parting thoughts

* Is this the underlying reason for current the mobile patent turf wars?
* Software developers are in a far better position to participate than anyone else
* Imagine a world with a 3D printer in every home (its coming)
* What are you going to make?